ETHNOPHARMACOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE: In China, Qishenyiqi Dropping Pill (QSDP), a Chinese medicine formula containing Astragalus membranaceus (Fisch.) Bunge, Salvia miltiorrhiza Bunge, Panax notoginseng (Burkill) F.H.Chen and Dalbergia odorifera T.C.Chen, has been used frequently in traditional folk medicine for treatment of coronary heart diseases (CHD) and heart failure (HF).
AIM OF STUDY: Previous study has shown that QSDP has definite therapeutic effects on promoting the heart function on CHD patients. The present study was designed to study the anti-fibrosis effects of QSDP on HF rats and to explore the underlying molecular mechanisms.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: HF rat model was induced by left anterior descending (LAD) coronary artery ligation. Two-dimensional (2D) echocardiography was adopted to evaluate heart functions. Immunohistochemical (IHC) method and Western-blot were used to detect expression of critical proteins in renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) or arachidonic acid (AA) metabolic pathway.
RESULTS: Heart functions were seriously injured in the model group. Expressions of fibrotic markers, such as collagen Ⅰ, collagen Ⅲ, matrix metallopeptidase 2 (MMP2) and MMP9 were elevated in the model group. RAAS pathway was activated. Interestingly, AA pathway was also up-regulated in the model group and it was down-regulated by angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs) drug Captopril. Expressions of the important signal-transuding proteins, including NF-κB, JAK1/STAT3 and Akt, all increased remarkably in the model group. Treatment with QSDP could attenuate myocardial fibrosis by inhibiting RAAS-activated pathway, as indicated by decreased angiotensin type 1 receptor (AT1) and increased AT2 expression. Expressions of phospholipase A2 (PLA2), cyclooxygenase 1 (COX1) and COX2 were also down-regulated in the QSDP-treated group. In addition, "therapeutic" QSDP administration seemed to down-regulate expressions of NF-κB, JAK1/ STAT3 and Akt which may play important roles in myocardial fibrosis.
CONCLUSION: QSDP can exert anti-fibrosis effect by down-regulating RAAS pathway, and subsequently inhibiting expressions of proteins in AA pathway.